My engagement to my wedding, it took a few months.
So my engagement was in May and my wedding was in December.
So during that time, there were certain things that happened like a church I'm about to
go to the house and I was living there and certain things happened.
So I would just very quickly relate the story from the beginning.
And just to understand something about me, I can just say about getting my realization
first, which is going to be very brief.
So I used to seek through books while studying literature, but actually it was Mother Earth
notebooks.
It was Mother Earth notebooks that gave me my spiritual awakening in 1975 in Poland.
From being an atheist overnight, I felt the presence of God.
And from that moment, dramatic changes happened to my life.
I was able to come to London in 1977 after seven years of applying for my passport just
to leave the country.
And then I continued my seeking in London.
I went to various meditation groups and I was practicing Hatha Yoga as well until one
day in 1980 in April, I arrived in Coxton Hall and I saw Shri Mataji for the first time.
I had very strong experience during the meditation.
To me, it was very obvious that I finally arrived at my destination.
Of course, because the personality of Shri Mataji was also very magnetic and it was just
impossible for me to do anything else except to follow her wherever she went.
And she went to many places at the time because she was touring England.
So I used to just sometimes travel at the back of her car and we all did.
I don't know how we fit it in that car because it was a Mercedes, but sometimes seven of
us, eight of us were in the car.
So the car was expanding.
So three weeks after I arrived, three weeks after my realization, I arrived in Dawliski
Lashdam in London.
And this was my first puja with Shri Mataji.
And Shri Mataji asked me to decorate her feet and then I had to be in the heaven sitting
on the floor for four hours.
It was all getting dark.
I didn't know how long it was going to last, but it was four hours.
And of course, after leaving the ashram, I felt like a new person, completely free, feeling
free, very happy and secure.
So I felt I was sort of under Shri Mataji's wing, as to speak, because I don't know why,
but Shri Mataji knew that I was feeling quite insecure anyway, didn't want to go back to
Poland.
So Shri Mataji used to hug me and kiss me quite often on seeing me.
I just took it for granted and I thought it was always going to be like this.
And when it stopped, I was quite disappointed, but somebody told me that I was ready to mature.
But anyway, so it was really nice.
My first time in Sahaja Yoga, however, sometimes I could not understand the accents of the
Yogis because there were so many varied accents.
And before I came, I used to spend most of my time with foreigners in London.
So I could understand Shri Mataji's speeches very well, but I couldn't understand sometimes
the Yogis with their very strong accents.
Sometimes it was very hard for me to communicate, but nevertheless, in a couple of weeks after
the puja, Shri Mataji suggested that I get married.
There was a subtle reason for this, and I don't want to elaborate about it right now.
I felt if I needed to marry, I would like to marry a good Yogi.
I think it was me, not Pat, who was first asked by Shri Mataji about the marriage.
So Shri Mataji said Pat was a very good person and she recommended him.
So I said, yes, thank you very much.
And I was wondering what will happen next.
I saw Pat before at the ashram with his son, so I could feel this bond of love between
both of them.
And that was very perfect for me because I just thought I would have a family ready made.
However, things were not that straightforward because my future husband was clearly avoiding me.
So I thought it was not such a good start after all.
I could see Yogis looking at me and whispering and meaningfully sort of giving me glances.
So I thought something strange was really going on.
A week also passed and I had no idea what was supposed to happen.
We went with Shri Mataji to Hester's house in Hampstead.
After I think it was a public program in friends meeting house in Hampstead.
So after the program, we stayed overnight.
We can't hear you again, Gresha.
Alpana, I just wanted to remind you, have you put it on the speaker mode?
Resna will be on the main screen when you're recording.
So the view can be speaker mode.
So shall I start again?
No, no, it's OK.
We're back a little bit.
We missed a couple of minutes.
Yes, just fine.
Yeah, please continue.
OK, so where was I?
Ah, the pad was not communicating.
And he left early in the morning on that day.
And in Hester's house, there was a walking wardrobe.
I don't know if anybody remembers that wardrobe.
There was a walking wardrobe in the bedroom.
And Shri Mataji called me into this wardrobe for a private conversation.
She told me that with such marriages it's like this.
There are 20 people in the room.
And everyone wants a perfect match.
So if everybody wants a perfect match, how is this possible?
Then mother asked me if I still agreed to marry Pat.
And of course, I said yes.
We both left the walking wardrobe.
And Shri Mataji announced the marriage as an engagement to begin with.
And of course, I was wondering what Pat's reply would be because I don't know.
Anyway, so Pat met me later on that day with a huge bunch of flowers smiling.
And I thought, well, that was a good start.
It is from him that I learn about the events of the past week and the reason why he was avoiding me.
So he was not keen on the match as his previous marriage was 12 years before.
It was a real disaster and there was no his fault in the marriage.
So it was not Shri Mataji who told him about the match.
It was Peter Pierce who was told by Shri Mataji to ask him.
And Pat was caught by surprise and said, yes, of course, if mother wishes.
But he was too mind about it.
He decided to meditate on it.
And to his astonishment, he felt the right heart melting and the vibrations becoming really strong.
So he became keen.
But there was another message from Shri Mataji cancelling the match.
As mother said, he was not spontaneous enough saying yes.
Just imagine what a roller coaster.
He was devastated.
And he was going for lonely walks pondering how many former matches he will have in Sahaja Yoga.
He was writing letters to Shri Mataji saying if he wanted to get married, but if he was not spontaneous enough,
it only meant he was caught by surprise.
Until the morning of Shri Mataji's announcement, he did not know whether he was going to be married or not.
Unfortunately, that morning he left early for work.
So he only found out from the phone call that I was matched, not he was matched.
To whom he asked the person on the phone and the person said, I don't know, I couldn't hear.
So, anyway, that was quite funny, the whole story, but this is of course not the end of it.
Anyway, we seemed to get on very well.
So he decided to introduce me to his parents and his son Kevin.
He was quite confident that it would be all right for me to visit his parents,
despite my English, I was always very self-conscious about my accent and my English,
because I was for a short time in the country, I was very nervous.
So I guess what happened on the day of the visit, I lost my voice.
I couldn't say anything.
I was thanking the Divine for solving the situation, and to this day I think it was my saving grace.
Anyway, during the engagement I briefly lived in Hampstead, in Mrs. Gulani's place.
I probably some of you remember Mrs. Gulani and Mr. Gulani.
They were the owners of the famous Temple of All Fates, in which we had many weddings and marriages in Sahaja Yoga.
It was actually a Hindu temple with huge plastic statue of Shridurga on the altar.
Yes, you can see in some of the videos, we tried to get rid of the statue, but somehow
we didn't want to upset Mrs. Gulani, so it remained there.
So this was the venue where many, as I said, many pudas and marriages took place in the very beginning.
And Mr. Gulani and the husband were very respectful to Shri Mataji, and sometimes they used to attend the pudas,
though they were not really yogis or not dictating.
Anyway, I stayed at Mrs. Gulani's place for some time, but something amazing happened to us in London.
It was around July when Cherchem Road was purchased by Linda Williams,
and this was another miracle, as she said, she bought it having...
The house was in need of renovation, and old lady was previously the owner of the house, and she hardly looked after it.
So that was the situation, and it was great because it was the first ever ashram owned by a Sahaja yogi.
It was our own. I was asked to move the shower tree afterwards, after it was bought.
Linda, her husband, her daughter, and other yogis like Chaya and Regis,
and Louis, Marcus, they were all living there. There were quite a lot of us living there.
As Antua probably will remember, the place was not only needing repairs,
it needed a lot of vibrational work because the vibrations were terrible.
So we used to burn candles in every room, we went around with ajwan, we played mother's talks in every corner of the room.
We had this, what you call this, tape recorders. We used to play talks in every room,
and we said many mantras. I tried to take the negativity out through the window. How we did that?
We had a left hand towards the room, and with the right hand out of the window we were taking the negativity.
Actually it worked. I do recommend if you ever in trouble in places. So it was like this.
She managed to vibrate lemons, chilies, coconuts, sugar, salt, honey, and giforas.
So we could use all these things to work on the vibrations.
And of course we were meditating, but it was quite difficult sometimes to meditate there.
But it was getting better, and because we were in the collective it was great.
However we tried to fix things, but whatever we mended,
another thing used to fall apart. So it was actually like going a few steps upwards,
a few and even more steps backwards. You have no idea. You are so lucky having the ashrams that you have now.
It was, as it's been prophesized, it was the foundation establishing ruins,
because it was a ruin. And of course we were told Sher Shamraut was the foundation of the New Jerusalem.
So despite the difficulties we were honored to be looking after it.
Shrimad Arji was greeted at one point at the doorway when she came for the first time.
And there was a small Shribu Midevi Puja offered to her on the doorstep. Later on the offerings
were put under the stone in front of the house, and she met her and she established Shri Ganesha there.
So Shri Ganesha was established, and also the first child was born there in August.
And this was another story, because I remember Linda had contractions while Shrimad Arji was speaking to her on the phone.
And in the end Linda dared to say that she actually was having contractions,
because the conversation was getting longer and longer. She said she was getting having contractions
and she was just about to have a baby. Shrimad Arji said yes, she could feel the contractions
and told Linda to call the ambulance. So interestingly the ambulance did not reach
the Royal Free Hospital, which was on the other side of London. It stopped halfway
and the baby was born in University College Hospital in central London.
We stopped in emergency, because 10 minutes later Linda delivered a child, a boy child.
So it was amazing, because I was present at the birth of the baby, and for me it was an amazing experience,
as I was quite scared of having children on my own, thinking I'm not going to go through this.
But after that it was so easy, so I just thought well that's not that scary.
Anyway, so Linda's husband arrived much later at the hospital, because he went to Royal Free,
where the baby was supposed to be delivered. Shrimad Arji named the boy Datatriya.
Anyway, now the life in the ashram kept going on. We had one car in the ashram and it was Peter's yellow van,
maybe somebody can remember that yellow van, which we use for
buying food in bulk and also buying flowers, lots of flowers in Covent Garden Market every week.
Myself and Chaya were not working. Chaya was an Indian yogini, very old yogini,
not very old at the time, but now, and we were not working, so we could we could spend all our time
in very basic kitchen, maybe you remember it was on the second floor, and we were cooking trimmings,
doing washing up all day, and entertaining guests who were visiting all the time to see the new ashram.
And we were actually exhausted, so once when Shrimad Arji rang,
and she asked me how it was all going, because I was quite new, I tried to say the truth, so I said
well it's all fine but we're not getting much help, we just... and Shrimad Arji told me off.
She said you are creating a problem for me, you just sit down and watch it.
So I did that and it became much better, because everything became...
everybody started sharing the chores and everything became more collected.
Anyway, now I'm coming to the description how the room where the wedding was going to take place
was created. So this the extension which is part of the meditation room now was being built,
and Shrimad Arji asked at one point, she asked the men to put down the concrete for the food,
for the floor in the night. She said now you are putting down the concrete,
and they worked all night using all kinds of strange lighting, I remember this happening,
and it was actually very cold, it was also quite cold, so while all these preparations were going,
on their way, Shrimad Arji called me one day and fixed the date of our wedding for the 5th of
December. Well that was all great, but there wasn't a room to have the wedding in.
For quite some time I was observing the building work not really progressing as fast as it should
have for the wedding to take place. This was a very trying time to exercise my witnessing power,
and I don't think I was doing very well. In the meantime one Irish girl who lived across the road
and was coming to meditate with us fell in love with Mia, and on hearing about the upcoming
wedding they both asked Shrimad Arji if they could get married too. Shrimad Arji was sort of
agreeing but was not happy with me for being over enthusiastic about it and possibly
encouraging it. I am not sure, but I think I was encouraging it because I wanted
as many people to get married as possible. So yeah, unfortunately the marriage
of Mia only lasted three weeks. When he left Sahachi Yoga and Mia decided that being single
was the easiest and safest option for him. So it's better not to fix other people's marriages
and yourselves. The time of my wedding was approaching but the roof was nowhere to be seen
and the walls were not plastered at all. They were just bare bricks. Nothing was much happening
and it was a cold December. I was thinking the wedding would not take place at all.
One day I was quite depressed thinking
there is no change in the building work, no roof to be seen and the place looked very miserable.
Anyway, on the wedding day the yogis
were not faced by anything. I saw them in the kitchen preparing food for the arriving guests.
Close to tears I was getting ready at Wendy's place across the road. Most of us
were concerned about shimataji coming to a freezing place with no roof and bare walls.
After maybe a couple of hours a messenger from the ashram heralded the arrival of the roof.
I was getting more hopeful. Still, went an hour later someone came to say it was beginning to look
fantastic. I said I believe when I see it. Mind you I could not see many things very clearly as
I decided not to wear my glasses and leave them behind. I didn't want to look, I didn't want to
wear my glasses on the photograph, quite vain. Anyway, eventually some people guided us inside
to what is now the meditation room. It was bright with carpets and saris hanging on the walls,
temporary roof was also there and the smiling faces of yogis and the atmosphere
were just electrifying. It was truly divine magic in the air, everything was transformed.
Shimataji came with the Hindu priest who conducted the ceremony. Some guests there were not
yogis and interestingly shimataji was wearing dark glasses, maybe because of that, but you can see
on the photographs later. I don't think that shimataji spoke, there was no video or audio
recording of it. It was sort of an Indian wedding with shimataji present very much there.
Shimataji fixed the turban on Pat's head, you will see it in the photos, out of her sari
and also we were both given saris by shimataji as a present, as well as blouses and petticoats.
Shimataji thought of everything. Of course because I did not wear my glasses
I could barely see where I was going, following my husband or he was following me, but going around
the fire and trying to do the right things asked by the priest. It was all very new to me.
The whole ceremony was very moving as you can imagine. I could barely follow
the fact that shimataji was just there looking after everything.
Afterwards delicious food was served and the atmosphere was very jarring.
I don't remember much about what happened later on and when shimataji departed
we were receiving good wishes and presents. It was all very sweet.
But finally it was time for us to leave. On our way back in the middle of London we noticed we were
running out of petrol and we managed to drive to a petrol station that was unfortunately already closed.
We had to leave our car there. We had our first argument about Pat not paying enough attention to details.
I mean not making sure there was enough petrol and about who was going to catch the taxi.
Those days without mobile phones we had to stand in the street in our Indian wedding outfits
late at night to flag the taxi.
Actually that was some distance from me so when the taxi stopped I got in and accidentally
shut the door. The taxi zoomed off, a path running behind. It took me a minute to alert the taxi driver to stop.
Then we had our second argument about me for a change not paying enough attention.
So that's how it all started. We drove off wondering how is this going to work.
And we both are quite different as you probably know, if not opposite personalities.
And yet we have a very happy successful marriage based on love, respect, freedom to be ourselves.
In Sahaja Yoga we grow together but not in each other's shadow. Mother's love
which brought us together has created this unbreakable bond and it has been our guide
and strength in good and sometimes difficult circumstances.
Jai Shri Mataji, that's all I could say. That's a wonderful, wonderful story Gresham, that's beautiful.
So I think we're going to look at some pictures now from your wedding, isn't it?
Yes, so I'll share some pictures and then Caroline you can tell the program.
And then after that I'll be asking Dr. Shakumar Misra has joined us, he's got up in the night
especially to join us from India to tell his story. So after we've looked at Gresham's pictures
I'll be asking him to share his story with us. I'll just get started with the sharing the
pictures with which Gresham sent. Some of them are in duplicate but I have not changed anything
and Gresham if you want to say something while I'm showing the pictures please go ahead.
I'll start sharing.
So we're both bowing to Shri Mataji's feet
and this is Shri Mataji. He's just going to arrange a turban on Pat's head
and that's she arranging the turban, making into a turban.
Those days nothing was just ready-made, everything has to be.
Okay so now we of course they are landing the brides, the bridegrooms and we do the same.
And there is a fire as you can see about and you can see some people here like John
Kingston there is a gill mate there in the corner as well.
That's Pat, you can see all the expressions, different expressions
and Pat was wearing glasses and that's me.
How beautiful.
I was not smiling because I was quite a bit nervous maybe.
And now you can see that I think I don't know what we're doing with feeding
ourselves or feeding each other. There is Dania behind me you see, you can't see her face but
she's there. She took some of our she's there. This is Dania in between me and me
and when she was a teenager I don't know how old she was maybe 15.
And this is the priest you can see there, the Hindu but he was not he was it's funny because
he was wearing actually a suit. He didn't come in the kurta pyjamas like normally one would do,
so he was wearing a suit.
There's some more photos.
I am smiling now because it's all over now, can relax.
Felicity there behind Pat when she was young.
And there were all these balloons singing. You see this the backdrop was the
the now it's the the door to the garden of the meditation room in Cherisham route.
And so these balloons were there and they were all released.
It was very sweet and of course the children have fun with the balloons.
So we are all smiling now and it's very nice.
Beautiful.
That's wonderful. Wonderful. So Dr. Shakumar Misra can I ask you to
open your microphone and your video and relate to us your story.
So
you can't talk.
travelers
I think he's left a message in the, on the chat, but I'm assuming that he can't open
his mic for some reason.
Shall I go ahead and share the video with?
Oh, he can't talk because everybody's sleeping in his house.
Oh, okay. Yes. What a pity.
What a pity. Yes, please.
Okay. So Grazna requested me to play a video. I think this is Grazna, if you can let us
know a bit before I play it.
Okay. So, so it was, wait a minute, I just, it was 1981. It was December 1981 in Chersham
Road. You will, you will recognize where the, where the, the meetings from Chersham
Road quite often on Zoom. And Shimataji was sitting in that place where there is an
altar now. Okay, so you can, so Shimataji was giving presents to everyone. Actually,
they were sort of like Christmas presents almost. And she was saying goodbye because
she was going to India. Okay. And you can see, you can see, you can see, seven minutes,
you can see all the yogis. And later on, so it was only short, short, she, she gave a
speech before, but I just wanted to show the presents. Yeah. Okay. Okay. If you can start.
For today's New Year, let us vow within ourselves that the selfishness or the self-centeredness
of the small less in you is finished. Now the drop has become the ocean. Live like an
ocean and like a lion. Don't roar at others. I mean generously and don't be afraid of
anything. Everything is taken care of, but believe that everything is taken care of.
Sometimes you might feel you are let down, sometimes you feel, oh, this should have happened.
Do not desire for it. Whatever you do not desire is not correct, that's all. If the
desire is correct and is deserving, it will happen, hundred percent. So all the best and
the greatest cheers and happiness and joy. Feel your responsibility, understand each
other and now going, tomorrow I'll be gone, so-called. Don't worry about anything else,
but worry about the Sahaja Yoga that has to be established all over the world. Very great
work one has done. Of course, I mean you can say with one has done as much as one can do,
but you can't do much more. You can become really dynamite and you can do it. Try to
think of ways and methods of doing it. May God bless you all.
So now, with all this green and blues, should we start giving presents now? Who is going
to give the presents? You have met them, no? Thank you very much. Can I take these out?
Thank you. Now these presents are nothing but an expression of your mother's love,
so don't worry, I should work. Now, that's enough. I'll tell you. Let's pass one by
one. All right, is the name. What a small present for you. I think it's better that
you open it and show. Very, very small present, you know. Open it. Now, you can see, you can
see the whole thing. You can see the whole thing. You can see the whole thing. You can
see the whole thing. I haven't given any special present to anyone because I can't
do that, but I know whom to ask to give special. I'll give special sometimes later.
Can I open for you? No, just show that. See that. Come along.
Come along.
ost speech
Satsang with technologies
Yogesvara dasapedha
Samy area
Come, come forward, you both have to take it.
All right?
So much significant.
Thank you Mother, very pretty.
Thank you Mother.
Remember that, all right?
Barbara.
Barbara, I'm going to take it.
I must say specially I'm very much impressed by the work she has done.
I wish people could learn from her how to do this work of
of going to what place you should say, the farthest place of Canada
and make the people so much realize, you see, for her.
This is special one I bought in Finland.
You see, for them to elephant I didn't understand how they did it.
They had done it.
You got this.
This is absolutely significant that the Finland people should make an elephant.
That's what she's done.
Courageous.
Now this is going to be three pronged attack.
Three pronged attack.
May God bless you.
There's a, just see, there's a, what you call that, bull, smiling.
See, smiling.
Let's see that.
Let's see that one.
It's fallen down here.
What?
It's fallen down here and then he's got it by smiling.
All right, Shubhala.
You see, some of the you are left out because of the
hariyanshari I think so, for Bala something.
Bala is good at uniting people together and inviting them to his house
and for him to give them.
Of course this means that sometimes he'll again have the pleasure
of eating in his house again.
These are the leaf of the
Kuyakatya-sishtila.
Baniya, huh?
Kuyakatya?
Banana, banana.
Gresha.
This is Gresha, isn't it?
Now, Mr. Kavreshna, who has not yet invited Me to her house
and I hope she will invite Me sometime.
Though if I may go, may not go, I don't know.
But still I would say that this is for with the hope
that she will invite Me to her house.
May God bless you.
This is the thing again with the bowl and these plates.
Like that.
I mean, same thing.
This one I have not been to the wheel place for eating
so...
We just saw Gresha getting her present.
And is that all, Gresha?
Should I play some more?
Or I think you wanted only till this point.
You're muted. Please unmute.
I tell you what happened with that video.
There are only two more people.
One is Gavin after that and one is Chris Clark.
And then suddenly the whole video gets scrambled.
So there are two levels and you can't really see what's going on.
And the whole video is like this.
Right to the end of giving the presents, which is a shame.
Really a shame.
It's a shame that maybe one day our computer, our video,
could do something about that video.
So that's why I think this was...
That's all we could see.
But the whole evening was just like that.
She was laughing all the time.
Every present was, you know,
she had just some funny comments about it.
And you could see there, there was Patricia,
there was also, who was there?
Sara Stechel was there.
We were all young girls, you know.
So, yes.
So some of us remember the old days because we were there.
Antoinette, you were there also.
Yeah.
Antoinette, you have to unmute.
I'm sorry.
I saw, recognized a lot of faces, but I don't think I was there.
You were not there?
I don't think I was.
Because I don't know, because the video was...
Yeah, because they were just from UK,
but sometimes people were from abroad.
Yeah, no.
The video was sort of like this, going like that, unfortunately.
I came to Church Amrout at the Puja at the time, a bit later, yes,
with Shri Mataji there, I do remember that.
And I felt that the walls were actually elastic
because there are so many people who were in that room
and couldn't understand how it could hold so many people.
You see, how you go to Church Amrout,
the meditation room is not that big.
Yeah, exactly.
I don't know how many of us used to think in that room.
It was amazing.
It was always like this with Shri Mataji.
It was a different dimension to everything.
It was very nice that you showed this, Greshene,
because so often people don't realize,
we just watch Mother's Talks and public programs
and you don't get to see this very human, very beautiful, generous, laughing side.
Shri Mataji would make jokes all the time, laugh things,
and she had such a command and control over the whole atmosphere
and our moods and our emotions.
She could just change the mood of the room just like that,
with some funny joke or something.
It was always correct, according to the person.
I still have the plates and I still welcome everybody to my house
and I serve the meals from those plates.
So, these presents were chosen specifically by Shri Mataji?
I think they were brought from India.
You see, this is special because my plates were like a leaf.
There is a special thing. I should have brought it with me.
It's important to understand the symbolism of the presents.
Whenever Shri Mataji gave you a present, there was always a much deeper meaning behind it.
The one I remember so vividly was the Guru Nanak Puja.
I think it was 1980-81.
Again in Hampstead at the All Temple Faiths.
After this puja, Shri Mataji suddenly said,
it's time for the gifts now.
The young men brought in boxes of gifts and each gift was wrapped in a brown paper bag.
So you couldn't see what was the gift at all.
Shri Mataji would literally pick out one of these bags and say,
this is for Patti, this is for so and so.
That person would come up and get the gift.
You'd see them coming, going back to their place, opening the bag.
Each person would just kind of go, oh wow, each gift touched in some special place.
One of the ladies, she said it was a bottle of perfume.
She said, oh, this is because Mother is telling me that I must respect and love myself.
It was just incredible to see how Shri Mataji knew each bag, what was in it, who it was for.
We couldn't see at all. It was very sweet.
But that was such a huge part of Shri Mataji, the generosity.
This became a tradition.
After pujas, especially in Kabbalah or the big pujas,
so much of the puja money that was collected went to buying presents for all the hosting countries and the people who were hosting.
I remember somebody coming back, having hosted an international puja from North America.
She had been given gifts by Shri Mataji to bring back and distribute to the ladies in the country, in Canada and in North America, who hadn't been able to go.
It was a very deep symbol.
Shri Mataji really showed us how to be generous, how to be gracious, how to be generous, how to be a Lakshmi.
It was very beautiful. It was a lovely, lovely day.
I have also stories about perfume because you trigger this story, this memory.
We were in Churchham Road. Have I got time to tell this little story?
Yes, of course.
We were at Churchham Road. I was following, obviously, Gresham with my family there for two years.
One day, I remember there were little problems in the ashram, as it is. Sometimes it happens in collective life.
We were not many there. We were there with Janet Ridley and her husband and my family with our five children.
We already were seven there, which was occupying the whole last floor, top floor.
Yes, the house was exactly a little bit more decorated than when Breschner was there.
You made me so much smile, Breschner, because I do remember the bathroom without any heating and me bathing my children in our bedroom because it would have been far too cold for them.
It was really a little bit of a tapasya to live in this ashram at the time.
The kitchen was very basic, etc. The stairs were quite dangerous because some spindles were missing.
It was early on. I just had my babies, but there were some things.
Shrimataji knew, so she called us and she called me at the ashram with the phone, which was on the wall on the ground floor.
She said, hello, Antoinette, this is Shrimataji here. I said, oh my God, Shrimataji.
I said, I want to see you. Come and see me at my place.
She was living then in an apartment near Victoria.
I said, oh my God. I found somebody to look after the children, the babies then.
I remember I was rummaging in my cupboard to match my tights to my skirt to look really nice in front of Shrimataji.
I had a nice navy blue kind of three-quarter skirt, which was very elegant and then a top also elegant.
But I took a little bit of time and then I said, oh my God, I don't want to be late.
I really walked very fast to the tube station, which was Stockwell.
There were only two stops. There was Stockwell and then another one. Then it was Victoria.
I arrived there and I was a little bit out of breath arriving there.
The servant opened the door and I was shown into the living room. I sat down.
Shrimataji came in and I was a bit short of breath and I was so thirsty because of walking fast.
Shrimataji looked at me with a kind of smile and she said,
you don't need to match your tights to your skirt before coming to see me, but I have time to do a foot soak.
She laughed and we laughed.
At that point, she knew everything actually.
I didn't even need to tell her the story of what was happening.
Very sweetly, she said, see Antoinette, when there is a situation, I let it develop and grow.
Then like a wave crashing onto the shore, I come forcefully with my vibrations.
So there it was. You just need to witness. Then she sought everything out.
Then she invited my husband and I for dinner with her in her dining room.
I still remember some delicious mango wessel and she talked to us very sweetly, very kindly.
Then she gave us a box, a little red box with four perfumes in it, Indian perfumes.
I still have them. One is Mowbras, one is Kush, the green kind of perfume for Sri Ganesha, and the other one is Honey Circle.
Actually, the other day I put some of the Honey Circle on her photograph and the vibration, the whiff of this perfume was wonderful.
That's one of the stories of Churcham Road, but it relates to what Felicity said, so I wanted to tell you.
That was beautiful, Antoinette, and well worth listening to.
It's now five to nine, so I suggest that we bring this to a close now.
Antoinette, we look forward to hearing some more stories about Churcham Road in January, hopefully.
Okay, we'll see how it goes. Thank you very much.
Thank you so much. Thank you. Alpana, you can stop the recording.
Thank you.